# Tuesday, #January 5, 2021

[Plan your newsroom project in 13 steps - NPR Data Storytelling](https://training.npr.org/2016/05/03/plan-your-newsroom-project-in-13-steps-and-with-lots-of-sticky-notes/)

[Activity: FInding a story in data - Data Therapy](https://datatherapy.org/activities/activity-finding-a-story-in-data/)

[How to plan your data story with a set of useful templates](https://medium.com/notes-from-the-classroom/data-story-templates-whats-your-data-driven-story-project-about-816da7929453)


**links for the hp viz**

[color mapping a film](https://andrisgauracs.medium.com/generating-color-palettes-from-movies-with-python-16503077c025)

[data slice](https://medium.com/data-slice)

[movie color bar chart generator](https://gist.github.com/anthony-wang/a067948ad8aa73510562cf9f5bc51d62)




- data is not an absolute truth, it's an educated guess (use data that does not have large levels of uncertainty attached)
- variablity may vary depending on level of granularity
- you need context for data, or it is useless
	- who (who the data is coming from)
	- how (don't skip the methodology)
	- what (what is the data about)
	- when (linked to time)
	- where (avoid global generatlizations, data can vary across cities/states/countries)
	- why (why was the data collected, check for bias)
- visualization components
	- simply mapping data to geometry + color
	- position: compare values based on where others are places in a given space or coordinate system
	- length: how long the shapes are
	- angle: rotation between vectors
	- direction: slope of a vector in space
	- shapes: symbols as categories
	- area: how much 2d space
	- volume: how much 3d space
	- color saturation: intensity of a color hue
	- color hue/color
- viz scales: linear, logarithmic, categorical, ordinal, percent, time
- [NYT chartsnthings](http://chartsnthings.tumblr.com) & [WaPo postgraphics](http://postgraphics.tumblr.com)
- exploratory process
	- What data do you have?
		- data first viz later
		- often the most time consuming process
	- What do you want to know about your data?
		- early exploration of a dataset can be overwhelming, but ask qs about the data and let your curiosities guide you
		- the more specific with your questions you are the most direction you get
	- What visualization methods should you use?
		- during early stages it's more important to see your data from different angles & drilling down what matters than choosing the right viz
	- What do you see and does it make sense?
		- increasing, decreasing, outliers, some mix, how much change is there + how prominent the patterns are
	- Jump around between these questions a lot


## mit app time

**how has your background shaped your dreams and aspirations**

My mother taught me my first crochet stitches. My grandmother ingrained this art into my soul as well; we would spend afternoons in the open balcony, her altering clothes while I fiddled with a ball of yarn and a needle too large for my hands. After my stepmother bought me my first sewing machine, I learned to sew too, an extension of the art that connects me to where I am from: the mothers in my life who taught me the idea of creation and storytelling. My fingers now deftly loop over slender crochet needles, tightening just enough here, allowing the yarn to breathe there.

The ups and downs of my life and my experiences as a first-generation woman of color come out in each stitch, in both the bright and muted tones of the yarn, just as they come alive in the stories I weave, in the world I create and fight for. I aim to tell diverse and radically unapologetic stories in everything I do—from writing, to data, to activism—and crochet is no exception. Each turn of the crochet needle has a purpose; each piece is a bold statement. It is hundreds upon hundreds of loops that are always shifting; evolving.

My mothers may not realize they have given me the tools I need to create and dream, but I use their gifts graciously. With every twitch of the crochet needle I dare to imagine both a better sweater and a better world.

---
*old*

My mother taught me my first crochet stitches. Her mother ingrained this art into my soul as well; we would spend afternoons in the open balcony, her altering clothes while I fiddled with a ball of yarn and a needle too large for my hands. After my stepmother bought me my first sewing machine, I learned to sew too, an extension of the art that connects me to where I am from—not simply the mothers in my life, but the idea of creation and storytelling. My fingers now deftly loop over slender crochet needles, tightening just enough here, allowing the yarn to breathe there.
My family regularly engages in puzzles. Sudoku, math tricks, and card games were the family pastimes. My grandfather, a retired civil engineer, writes songs and poetry when he can. Most of us sing and play instruments.
Don’t let my family’s background in the sciences fool you: They are truly ambidextrous virtuosos. They are creative in every space, encouraging me to think outside the norm. I have grown to love puzzles and art alike—constantly questioning the world around me and exploring new things.
They’ve shown me to never limit myself to what I can learn and do. I’ve wanted to do many things with my life—biochemistry, creative writing, journalism, politics—and computer science has been the one thing that truly keeps my learning from a vast array of subjects, sitting at the intersection between logic and creativity.


**tell us about where you come from**

Many of my first-generation peers will tell you the same thing—asked to conform to two very different cultures, we feel like an outsider in both. By the time sophomore year rolled around, while I'd grown out of my I-want-to-change-my-name phase, my I-don't-belong difficulties were coupled with having a new mom.

My mom passed away when I was younger. She spoke Telugu, like the rest of my family. By all regards, my stepmother's Gujurati family shouldn't have been significantly different, but I found myself not quite fitting into yet another culture.

My stepmother, however, proved that my culture didn't need a label. She'd entered a family unlike her own as well, but never felt she had to fit a mold. Now, I am proud I enjoy garba, iced coffee, and Telugu music all at once.

--- 
*old*

My father and I analyze language—where words come from, what they symbolize. My father’s education in my family’s homeland was the backdrop to my English one here, and sometimes, the two clashed. There was English, of course, which manifested itself in my love of literature, but there were also the hundreds of languages across India, the ones that represented groups of colorful culture, which feel like my own but are so different in so many ways. Each has their own quirks—some have sounds I’ll never hear in an English education, have words for concepts that would take me a hundred words to describe. In my home, we speak English, but you can hear snatches of Hindi, Telugu, and Gujurati. I’m lucky to live in a place where I can celebrate the intersection of diverse cultures across India.

---

**changing your community**

Before I started working full-time for Sunrise, one of the biggest environmental justice organizations in the country, I cut my teeth as communications director of U.S. Youth Climate Strike, learning about political communications. I joined a diverse community of people fighting for social justice.

At Sunrise, I trained activists on something central to art and communications: public narrative. Before the November 2020 election, I coached leaders across Pennsylvania—where they garnered national attention in the press for protesting and organizing against unjust voter suppression laws in the courts. I worked nights to make sure organizers had a comms plan for the action the next day. I got to see the stories I helped them create in their action speeches or press releases or quotes to the media. 

This was not the first time I saw what a difference sharing great stories could make, but it convinced me that it would be central to whatever work I planned to do in the future, no matter the field of study. I think seemingly intractable problems—like climate justice or voter suppression—can only be fixed by mass participation and in telling the right stories. In sharing my skills, I wish to do my part. 

Using my skills as a storyteller is one way I make a difference in my community. I firmly believe that my future as a life-long activist will only be furthered by MIT's commitment to using every tool at our disposal to helping communities—from technology to the arts.