# Monday, January 4, 2021

## Metafiction
- ...(briefly interrupted by a stint in trying to publish music)...
- She was now no longer in the dreary study. A gaping hole had opened in the center of the floor and was steadily filling with water from some unknown place.
- It was raining now. The roof seemed to sag under the weight. *Drip. Drip.*
- My finger hit the backspace key violently. *Why would it be raining? It's supposed to be a desert.* I'm writing a fantasy novel and I can't fix the part about the desert?
- I could tell you about xyz....or about zyx...or wvut...but instead I will attempt to tell you everything I know about blank sheets of paper // religion // 
- ah, you lie!
- writing is as much about grammar as politics is about the words you say (in other words, after a point, it's not). 
- cliches are cliches for a reason
- *while science for the sake of science has its value, applying math technology to solve problems in society is particularly appealing to me.*
- "It's okay, I guess." I don't tell them that I've been spending the last two hours, in fact, writing the same paragraph over and over. 
- "Fine, so there's this bear." In my head the bear looks like the pink, long-limbed teddy bear I, in a stunt of originality, named Pinky. It's fine, there's nothing new in the realm of fiction, right? I think Captain Nemo said something like that once.
- "Yes, that's the one!" 
- ideas run away (and reproduce) like bunnies
- sure, writing is ... . take, for example, this: ... 
- that was an accident, I think. 
- Yet, despite its many contradictions, it is arguably calming to push a trope to its limit—to convince yourself that you're not alone in thinking that Dumbledore was a horrible character // Snape was a horrible character // the concept of lightsabers don't actually make sense.

### An exploration in metafiction for college essay writing
This would be an excellent opportunity for me to tell you about the times I lost myself in music. Or even about my latest cross-stitching piece, or my various pop culture obsessions.

But that would be too easy.

*She was no longer in the dreary study. A gaping crevice had ripped opened in the center of the floor and was steadily filling with water from some unseen place.*

I stepped in. The water was up to my knees, then all at once, she was drenched in a downpour—

My finger hit the backspace key violently. She needs to be in a desert, why would it be raining? I start the same sentence a few more times before flipping through my notes, scratching some plot points out. I'm writing a fantasy novel, but I can't fix the weather plot hole in the desert?

Okay, new scene. Will she befriend a friendly ghost? Only the gods (Neil Gaiman and J. R. R. Tolkien) know. In a stunt of originality, she meets a crochety old mentor. It's fine, there's nothing new under the sun even in fiction, right? I think Prince Caspian said something like that once.

In any case, the loose plot pieces are finding their place. Despite its many contradictions, creative writing is like developing film, since the end result is bound to surprise you. Feeling characters, worlds, and conflict in my hand is exciting. Writing can be unfun and difficult at times, but positively exhilarating when it all comes together.

---
*old*

No, it wasn’t Hogwarts, but the playground in fourth grade would make do for a magical school system of our creation. We had magical talents, houses defined by personality, the whole shebang.

The stories we created on the playground become the stuff of legend that one friend and I would turn into the beginnings of a fantasy book. Much of that year was spent creating detailed character spreadsheets, sketches of magical items, and pages of notes filled with details on the magic and school system. Together, we debated the intricacies of plot and antagonists, we hashed out arguments through dialogue, constructed a world straight onto a Google doc in Balthazar 11 pt font. 

Writing has long been a part of me that shapes how I see the world: in terms of stories, texture, and character. Fiction, in particular, helps me imagine people and life in a different way. The concept of radical imagining I explored when I was ten leaves its mark on my life now: I organize communities because I imagine that a new world is possible.
I believe in hopes and dreams, beginnings and endings. I will now graduate as arts & entertainment editor of my school newspaper (and I have loved my journey) and I am nearly finished with a 90,000-word fantasy novel manuscript that I hope to publish this year.




## #writing a YA Novel
Great dialogue gives your story "texture of lived life." It propels plot (what/get/do). Tool for showing/building/resolving conflict between characters
No info dump!
It's an exciting, eavesdropping quality

- avoiding info dumps
	- Rewrite as arguments
	- Comparative convo (to "check notes")
	- One character oblivious
	- Expository narration

- great characters: attach one or even more! of these three
	- dimension: layered with internal paradoxes, flaws and failures
	- conflict: internal/external
	- empathy: most powerful when attached to villains

**subtext in dialogue**
- "special halo" around dialogue that communicates what is not written
- build up to future plot reveals
- reveal character's feelings and occupations
- lead to a *further revelation*

**outlining characters**
- bubble method to illustrate relationships
- Q&A/interview questions
- stream of consciousness (fragments of whatever comes to mind)
- have some questions in mind:
	-  What is their family dynamic? (How many members, how do they interact, etc.)
	-   Was their childhood happy or troubled?
	-   Where did they grow up? 
	-   Were they rich, poor, middle class?
	-   Who are their friends and how did they meet?
	-   Were there any traumas in their lives?
	-   What are some of their happiest memories? Worst memories?
	-   Why did they choose their career?
	-   How many romantic relationships have they had? Were they good or bad? Why did they end?
	-   What is one thing they would wish to change about the past?

*Note: Conflict-based dialogue comes first! Otherwise, don't include it*

- People are bundles of conflict

**more dialogue**
- Voice can reveal personality, current mood/psychological state, background, key differences between them and other characters (which builds attraction or repulsion)
- Dialogue is easier to read than paragraphs of narration, and cut meaningless fluff down
	- condense when it should be tense, limit dialogue tags

Think about character description: you need something that imprints in the readers' minds, and it doesn't have to be basic characteristics. (Think: "vulture-eye" in *The Tell-Tale Heart*, when the man is never described but you remember him clearly.) Think about behavior/mannerisms, symbolism (which makes writing it very fun), make them distinguishable from each other.




---
Math didn’t always come easy for me—I'd finished algebra and geometry, but I was regretting taking calculus sophomore year. Looking back, I feel like this challenge was a necessary step in developing a love of mathematics.

There's no instruction manual for developing mathematical intuition, the kind I was told I needed for advanced math. I realized the only way to get past this was to immerse myself in the subject—so in addition to more practice problems, I read through second perspectives and a wide range of (sometimes dry) material to approach the same problem in different ways.

Physics, sophomore year. My teacher discussed velocity and position, but my mind wandered to other subjects, still on the calculus content from days before. I saw a graph on the board—similar to a derivative graph—and I finally saw the connection.

Similar things popped up, over and over: When my calculus teacher ran her finger along the ridges of an illustration of a half-sphere cut in slices, she illuminated the integration of a plane as well as math concepts from years ago that seemed too disconnected at the time to make sense.

Through my second year of calculus, my strength in math grew—math was no longer just a series of formulas. When I got the opportunity to take another calculus course, I connected concepts like gradient descent to machine learning. 

These connections, I found, had to be searched and explored on my own. Now, I find joy in discovering intersections between seemingly disparate areas of study, in which mathematical theorems abound as invitations to explore the world.

---

new:

Math didn’t always come easy for me—I'd finished algebra and geometry, but I was regretting taking calculus sophomore year. Looking back, I feel like this challenge was a necessary step in developing a love of mathematics.

There's no instruction manual for developing mathematical intuition, the kind I was told I needed for advanced math. I realized the only way to get past this was to immerse myself in the subject—so in addition to more practice problems, I read through second perspectives and a wide range of (sometimes dry) material to approach the same problem in different ways.

Physics, sophomore year. My teacher discussed velocity and position, but my mind wandered to other subjects, still on the calculus content from days before. I saw a graph on the board—similar to a derivative graph—and I finally saw the connection.

Similar things occurred later: When my calculus teacher ran her finger along the ridges of an illustration of a half-sphere cut in slices, she illuminated the integration of a plane as well as math concepts from years ago that seemed too disconnected at the time to make sense.

Through my second year of calculus, math was no longer just a series of formulas. In my third calculus course, I connected concepts like gradient descent to machine learning. 

These connections, I found, had to be searched for on my own. Now, I find joy in discovering intersections between seemingly disparate areas of study, in which mathematical theorems abound as invitations to explore the world.