# Wednesday, January 6, 2021

- [ ] catch up with Sunrise work
- [ ] finish editing MIT supplements
- [ ] work on LWOP data
- [ ] start on harry potter project
- [ ] list out entertainment stories for print
- [x] put in classes in calendar
- [x] plan out adulting day (thurs)
- [ ] clean up notion
- [ ] some data work!
- [ ] habits :)
- [ ] plan out next few weeks of sidekick content
- [x] comp sci hw
- [x] sidekick check in

### CHS Adulting Day Schedule

[9am - Keynote Speaker Section C (Ann Cinelli)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/81522686414?pwd=TGh4ZE1JSVI0TXhOR296SUtLYUhmQT09)
[9:45am - Choice Session #1: Cooking/Health & Wellness (Sorelle Kimball)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/85101619588?pwd=bkhXUE03K0FIeFdSQWxBWUFqOWNHZz09)
[10:45am - Life Hack Session #1 (Adrian Caswell)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/85792328439?pwd=Rkg0WEdhb0JiVFFyc21CeTZjY0tqZz09)
[12pm - Lunch & Learn Panel: Determination (Maxx Lazos)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/81631188665?pwd=UldRMFR3QjRhanNHcDRPc1lGTTdDdz09)
[12:45pm - Choice Session #2: College Life Q&A (Maxx Lazos)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/81631188665?pwd=UldRMFR3QjRhanNHcDRPc1lGTTdDdz09)
[1:45pm - Life Hack Session #2 (David Bearden)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/85825005942?pwd=ckhDWWgzbEdZY2tKNXF6MzJrc1o1Zz09)
[2:45pm - Choice Session #3: Starting Your Own Business (Brian Simpson)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/85361591078?pwd=NTdLc0lVY0NMcnl0V0pZNDJGWHJzdz09)
[3:30pm - Closing Keynote Speaker Section C (Ann Cinelli)](https://coppellisd.zoom.us/j/81522686414?pwd=TGh4ZE1JSVI0TXhOR296SUtLYUhmQT09)

---

### complete MIT app essays

#### cultural background and identity

Many of my first-generation peers will tell you the same thing—asked to conform to two very different cultures, we feel like an outsider in both. By the time sophomore year rolled around, while I'd grown out of my I-want-to-change-my-name phase, my I-don't-belong difficulties were coupled with having a new mom.

My mom passed away when I was younger. She spoke Telugu, like the rest of my family. By all regards, my stepmother's Gujurati family shouldn't have been significantly different, but I found myself not quite fitting into yet another culture.

My stepmother, however, proved that my culture didn't need a label. She'd entered a family unlike her own as well, but never felt she had to fit a mold. Now, I am proud I enjoy garba, iced coffee, and Telugu music all at once.


#### world you come from + dreams & aspirations

My mother taught me my first crochet stitches. My grandmother ingrained this art into my soul as well; we would spend afternoons in the open balcony, her altering clothes while I fiddled with a ball of yarn and a needle too large for my hands. After my stepmother bought me my first sewing machine, I learned to sew too, an extension of the art that connects me to where I am from: the mothers in my life who taught me the ideas of creation and storytelling. My fingers now deftly loop over slender crochet needles, tightening just enough here, allowing the yarn to breathe there.

The ups and downs of my life and my experiences as a first-generation woman of color come out in each stitch, in both the bright and muted tones of the yarn, just as they come alive in the stories I weave, in the world I create and fight for. I aim to tell diverse and radically unapologetic stories in everything I do—from writing, to data, to activism—and crochet is no exception. Each turn of the crochet needle has a purpose; each piece is a bold statement. It is hundreds upon hundreds of loops that are always shifting; evolving.

My mothers may not realize they have given me the tools I need to create and dream, but I use their gifts graciously. With every twitch of the crochet needle I dare to imagine both a better sweater and a better world.


#### what you do for fun

This would be an excellent opportunity for me to tell you about the times I lost myself in music. Or even about my latest cross-stitching piece, or my various pop culture obsessions.

But that would be too easy.

"She was no longer in the dreary study. A gaping crevice had ripped opened in the center of the floor and was steadily filling with water from some unseen place."

I stepped in. The water was up to my knees, then all at once, she was drenched in a downpour—

My finger hit the backspace key violently. She needs to be in a desert, why would it be raining? I start the same sentence a few more times before flipping through my notes, scratching some plot points out. I'm writing a fantasy novel, but I can't fix the weather plot hole in the desert?

Okay, new scene. Will she befriend a friendly ghost? Only the gods (Neil Gaiman and J. R. R. Tolkien) know. In a stunt of originality, she meets a crochety old mentor. It's fine, there's nothing new under the sun even in fiction, right? I think Prince Caspian said something like that once.

In any case, the loose plot pieces are finding their place. Despite its many contradictions, creative writing is like developing film, since the end result is bound to surprise you. Feeling characters, worlds, and conflict in my hand is exciting. Writing can be unfun and difficult at times, but positively exhilarating when it all comes together.


#### making the world a better place

Before I started working full-time for Sunrise, one of the biggest environmental justice organizations in the country, I cut my teeth as communications director of U.S. Youth Climate Strike, where I learned about political communications and organizing. Now I am part of a diverse community of people fighting for social justice.

At Sunrise, I trained activists on something central to art and communications: public narrative. Before the November 2020 election, I coached leaders across Pennsylvania—where they garnered national attention in the press for protesting and organizing against unjust voter suppression laws in the courts. I worked nights to make sure organizers had a comms plan for the action the next day. I got to see the stories I helped them create in their action speeches or press releases or quotes to the media. 

This was not the first time I saw what a difference focused involvement could make. At Bluebonnet, I used machine learning and data to predict the best voting precincts in which to organize. Technology allows me to discover new solutions to the world's problems, like climate justice or voter suppression. In sharing my skills, I wish to do my part. 

 I firmly believe that my future as a life-long activist will only be furthered by MIT's commitment to using every tool at our disposal to helping communities—from technology to the arts.


#### challenge

Math didn’t always come easy for me—I'd finished algebra and geometry, but I was regretting taking calculus sophomore year. Looking back, I feel like this challenge was a necessary step in developing a love of mathematics.

There's no instruction manual for developing mathematical intuition, the kind I was told I needed for advanced math. I realized the only way to get past this was to immerse myself in the subject—so in addition to more practice problems, I read through second perspectives and a wide range of (sometimes dry) material to approach the same problem in different ways.

In physics, sophomore year, my teacher discussed velocity and position. My mind wandered to other subjects, still on the calculus content from days before. I saw a graph on the board—similar to a derivative graph—and I finally saw the connection. When my calculus teacher ran her finger along the ridges of an illustration of a half-sphere cut in slices, she illuminated the integration of a plane as well as math concepts from years ago that seemed too disconnected at the time to make sense.

Through my second year of calculus, math was no longer just a series of formulas. In my third calculus course, I connected concepts like gradient descent to machine learning. 

These connections, I found, had to be searched for on my own. Now, I find joy in discovering intersections between seemingly disparate areas of study, in which mathematical theorems abound as invitations to explore the world.